#Fidel QAE - UI and API Challenge - Marco Garutti
***

Table of contents
=================

<!--ts-->
   * [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
   * [Requirements](#requirements)
   * [Repo Structure](#repo-structure)
   * [Overview](#overview)
   * [Test Approach - UI](#ui-test-approach)
   * [Test Approach - API](#api-test-approach)
   * [Running the Tests](#running-the-tests)


Requirements
============
Node.js 10 or 12 and above must be installed to download Cypress through npm. It's possible to check the
node version through:

```bash
$ node -v
```

If Node.js needs to be installed:

```bash
$ npm install npm@latest -g
```

Also, install npx to run cypress without accessing the node_modules\.bin folder:

```bash
npm install -g npx
```

Install Cypress for Mac, Linux, or Windows using npm?

```bash
$ npm install cypress --save-dev
```

This project uses faker-js dependency to generate mock data for the API

```bash
$ npm install @faker-js/faker --save-dev
```

and also Chai for some additional assertions:

```bash
npm install --save-dev chai
```

Repo Structure
==============

* /cypress 
    (contain all Cypress related folders like fixtures, integration (tests folder), commands, etc.)
    * /e2e
        (the tests folder with two sub-folders to API and UI testing):
        * /api
            * brands.cy.js
            * locations.cy.js
            * programs.cy.js
        * /ui
            * store_Checkout.cy.js
            * store_Wishlist.cy.js
    * /fixtures
        * brand_update.json 
        * brand.json
        * location.json
        * program.json
    (JSON files of data objects that can be used in tests)
    * /plugins
        * index.js
    * /screenshots
    (test evidences generated by Cypress)
    * /support
      (contain custom commands and index.js file that is loaded automatically before the test run)
        * commands.js
        * index.js
* cypress.config.json 
  (baseUrl, api_key and env variables can be defined here)
* package-lock.json
* package.json
* README.md

Overview
=================

This project was done in 2022 with an older version of Cypress. It was updated to the latest version, which includes changes on the folder structure.
There are just a few examples for the API testing for now, but eventually this will be updated. I hope.

UI Test Approach
=================

After doing some manual testing on the https://demo.opencart.com/ website to understand the workflow and also be familiar with the elements, I started to map the selectors and write the tests for automation.

The mapping could be improved if the website provided some unique attributes for the selectors - like "[data-cy]", mentioned on Cypress documentation as a best practice.

DISCLAIMER: Some things on the opencart website changed since I did this. Some locators and flow behavior changed. Right now, the tests will fail, but eventually I'll update the code and make sure to cover the changes.

API Test Approach
==================

The API documentation was crucial to creating the tests coverage. Since I already had an account on Fidel and the API test key information, I started to send some requests using Postman to check the methods behavior, expected body requests and response. Some of the responses were used as a reference to create the fixtures files. I also used created a collection on Postman to make it easier to keep track of all the automated endpoints.

To make the 'POST' creation more dynamic, I used the 'faker-js' library to generate random information. For the Locations endpoint, I'm using the 'GET' Brands/Programs list and randomizing the IDs.

The tests were created to cover most of the methods (some of them only work on production/live env). Some bad requests are covered as well.

Also, while I was running the tests I also checked the Fidel Dashboard to make sure that the information was available on the front end.

Running the Tests
=================

First of all, the project needs to be downloaded or cloned from this repo. Also, make sure that the 'node_modules' folder is in the project's folder.
A valid Fidel API account is needed to generate the token/API key. Make sure to update the api_key value on cypress.config.js file.
Example:
* Fidel 
        * cypress 
        * node_modules
        * .gitignore
        * cypress.json
        * package.json
        * package-lock.json
        * README.md


Then, using the command line, access the project folder and, with the command below, Cypress will run all the tests through the command line (without using the interface):

```bash
$ Fidel > npx cypress run
```

You can also specify the API or UI folder to run just one of them with the '- -spec' parameter, for example:

```bash
$ Fidel > npx cypress run --spec "cypress/e2e/api/brands.cy.js"
```

To run the tests with the Cypress Interface, use the command:

```bash
$ Fidel > npx cypress open
```